# Smart Grid Stability Prediction with Deep Learning 

## 1. Foreword

This notebook is based on the "__Electrical Grid Stability Simulated Dataset__" created by Vadim Arzamasov and donted to __University of California (UCI) Machine Learning Repository__, where it is currently hosted (link [here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Electrical+Grid+Stability+Simulated+Data+))

### Reference

"**_Towards Concise Models of Grid Stability_**" (V. Arzamasov, K. Böhm and P. Jochem, 2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications, Control, and Computing Technologies for Smart Grids (SmartGridComm), Aalborg, 2018, pp. 1-6), in which Dr. Arzamasov and his co-authors explore how data-mining techniques can address DSGC model simplifications.

## 2. Introduction

### Motivation
I read this book called "**The Third Industrial Revolution**" by Jeremy Rifkin. A quick introduction to Jeremy Rifkin, he is an American economic and social theorist, writer, and political advisor. Rifkin is the principle architech of the Third Industrial Revolution, a economic sustainability plan to address the triple challenge of the global economic crisis, energy security, and climate change. 

In his book he writes about smart grids, integrated with renewable energy sources like solar farms, solar panels mounted on homes and building, wind farms, etc. In traditional operating ecosystem the energy was producted by few centralized entites and then energy is supplied to consumer over **unidirectional** flow grid. Whereas in the third Industrial Revolution, consumers are now users (homes and buildings) who not only consume energy but now have ability to produce and supply surplus energy to smart grid - hence a new word is termed to designate them "**prosumers**. Plus, now the energy flow is **bidirectional** flowing from users to grid and grid to user based on demand and supply. 

Despite smart grid concept is exciting, the management of supply and demand of energy will be more complex than ever, for this problem Jeremy Rifkin has also proposed a solution which is Big data Analytics were data is generated by IoT devices. 

Coming towards our project, to manage smart grid efficiently, stability of grid is important. Many acadamic researchs and study are doveted for stability of smart grid. And in this notebook we are using "__Electrical Grid Stability Simulated Dataset__" which was produced during one of this research which I have refered in Foreword.
